[[UUID-44c38ee5-aeec-1966-1a50-114cc6bf3fbb]]
= Dashboards

A Siren Investigate dashboard displays a set of saved visualizations in
a customizable grid layout. Each visualization is normally linked to a
search. Dashboards can be organized in dashboard groups, shared, and
customized.

Siren 10.3 introduced a significant new feature called _Dashboard 360_.
You can now define an internal _dashboard data model_ which enables a
dashboard's visualizations to be based on different tables (searches),
and to coherently display only data from connected records at each step.
This provides a 360-degree view of a record (or groups of records),
showing in a single view what is connected, both directly and
indirectly.


== The Dashboard Data Model

A Siren Investigate dashboard displays a set of saved visualizations in
a customizable grid layout. Dashboards can optionally display a search
bar, a filter bar, and (at top right) a ‘time range’.

Investigate provides three types of dashboards:

image:15d88cec9cef34.png[image]

*Dashboards that do not represent a search (informational or summary
dashboards)*

The Dashboard does not represent a search option is used when the
dashboard is not primarily about a set of entities, such as _companies_
or _investments_ in the Siren Community demo.

The following screenshot from the demo shows an example of this
informational or summary dashboard:

image:15d88cec9d552e.png[image]

Dashboards without a search:

* Do not display a count (number of records) on top or in the sidebar
* Cannot be targets or origin of relational navigation (for example, via
the Relational Navigator)

With this dashboard type, it is usually better to hide the search/filter
bar and the time filter. This can be done from the Options menu in Edit
mode.

*Dashboards that are about a search*

If a dashboard is to represent a specific search (for example, the
_companies_ or _articles_ searches), you select the Dashboard is about a
search option, and then select the appropriate search from the drop-down
menu.

image:15d88cec9de232.png[image]

This effectively binds the dashboard to the search, which enables the
following:

* The dashboard displays the count on top, as well, the icon associated
with the search in question; the count is also displayed on the sidebar.
* Components like the Relational Navigator start working and can be used
on the dashboard (blue links).
* The content of the dashboard itself can be added to a Graph Browser.

For example, in the following screenshot (from the tutorial demo) the
_all articles_ dashboard is set to be about the _Articles_ search. This
makes the Relational Navigator component (blue buttons) work and shows
the count (646,902) on top and on the sidebar.

image:15d88cec9e4bec.png[image]

*Dashboard 360: Showing data from multiple connected searches on the
same dashboard*

Siren 10.3 introduces the new Dashboard 360 feature which, thanks to a
_dashboard-specific data model_, enables a single dashboard to contain
visualizations that are based on different searches, and to perform
coherent filtering across all of them.

In the following example screenshot, the _all companies_ dashboard
contains a visualization _Companies by Country_, which is based on the
on the _Companies_ search.

Thanks to the dashboard data model (which will be explained shortly), it
is possible to add a visualization (the _Investments by Year_ pie chart)
based on the _Investments_ search; clicking on the pie chart then
coherently filters the _Companies by Country_ visualization.

image:15d88cec9ebb64.png[image]

Note how additional icons appear on the top left of each visualization’s
container in Dashboard 360 mode, indicating the searches that are in
use.

*Creating a data model for Dashboard 360*

To get visualizations to be _relationally connected_ (Dashboard 360), we
need to create a dashboard data model that defines how the ‘main search’
for the dashboard is to be relationally joined with the other searches
that will then power the visualizations.

To configure Dashboard 360, click on [.menuchoice]#Edit > Data Model# ①
and select Dashboard 360 with filter strategy (leave the filter strategy
at Left Join Filter for the moment) ②. You can then click Add Main
Search ③, which is the same concept as in ‘Dashboard about a search’.

image:15d88cec9f3630.png[image]

This opens a dialog that enables you to select the appropriate search.

image:15d88ceca076ed.gif[image]

In the following screenshot, _Companies_ has been added as the Main
Search. By default, the side panel ② shows the list of Dashboard
360-compatible visualizations and whether or not they are assigned to a
search node.

At this point, neither of the visualizations are assigned yet (① and ②).

image:15d88ceca12ccd.png[image]

To assign a visualization, click the search node to select it; then
click the + button ① beside the required visualization, as shown in the
following screenshot.

image:15d88ceca1adc7.png[image]

We are now going to build the dashboard data model in Siren Investigate
by defining how this search is to be relationally connected with other
searches (that is, which path in the relational data model to take). To
do this, click the + button on the Main Search node (② above).

This opens the following dialog which shows all the possible relations
that come from the chosen search, as well as all possible searches that
can be reached through those relations. In the case of our demo data,
these are the options, and we choose _Investments_ ① via the only
possible relation, _secured_ ②.

image:15d88ceca21840.png[image]

This adds other searches to the dashboard data model so that
visualizations can be connected to the appropriate search.

The following screenshot shows how the dashboard data model and the
visualizations look after they have been assigned (notice the icons on
the top left of each visualization’s container, indicating they have
been assigned to the appropriate searches).

image:15d88ceca295b1.png[image]

Once this is done, and the dashboard saved, filtering will work
coherently across the visualizations.

*Left Filter Join and Inner Filter Join*

When ‘Dashboard 360’ is selected, you can specify either a Left Filter
Join or an Inner Filter Join.

If Inner Filter Join is selected, this immediately hides from any search
all the records that are not fully connected (related) to records in the
other searches.

For example, in our demo, if Inner Filter Join is selected and the
companies search is connected to the _articles_, _investments_, and
_investors_ searches, then only 5,615 companies remain; each of these is
guaranteed to be connected to at least one article and one investment
(which in turn is connected to at least one investor).

image:15d88ceca31d78.png[image]

The Inner Filter Join logic can be too restrictive in many scenarios as
it often removes many records from the main search (all those that are
not fully relationally connected).

To gain a broader view of the data, the Left Filter Join logic filters
the Main Search only if an explicit filter is present on one of the
other searches connected to the dashboard datamode.

In our example, selecting Left Filter Join now makes all the companies
appear (160,026).

Visualizations that refer to searches other than the Main Search still
display only the records that are relationally connected to those in the
Main Search. For example in the following screenshot, the pie chart
_Investment by Year_ only shows records that are connected to the
_companies_ search.

image:15d88ceca39b61.png[image]

*Understanding a specific visualization context*

When visualizations are part of the Dashboard 360 data model, they
display an icon in the top left of their container.

Hovering on this icon shows which node of the dashboard data model they
are connected to and the current status of the filters. In the following
screenshot, we see that the _Investment by Year_ visualization is
relationally filtered to operate on the _Investments_ (41,343 with the
current filters) that have been secured by _Companies_ (160,026).

image:15d88ceca40df9.png[image]

[[UUID-dd885535-5ba7-855b-9200-cf4d10d68dd8]]
== Creating a dashboard

Dashboards can be accessed using the home icon or the Siren logo. When
you click Dashboard, Siren Investigate displays the first available
dashboard or, if no dashboards have been defined, the dashboard creation
screen.

image:15d88ceca47f77.png[New Dashboard screen]

You create a new dashboard by clicking the icon in the dashboard panel:

image:15d88ceca4f034.png[Create New Dashboard]

You can give the dashboard a meaningful name and click Create.

image:15d88ceca5736c.png[Creating a New Dashboard]

The dashboard has now been created but it is empty (you will see a
message saying _This dashboard is empty_); you start building the
dashboard by adding _visualizations_ to it.

NOTE: If you have selected fields in Discover (or used its Autoselect fields
feature), you can click Generate Dashboard to auto generate a dashboard
from those selected fields. This will create a new dashboard with
visualizations selected to display the data in those fields. For
details, see
link:#UUID-b1dcfd44-c591-5197-e786-3608f9ad7213[Autogenerate dashboard].


[[UUID-cf8eb7f5-1519-4a8d-a6ee-46dd9783dbed]]
== Adding visualizations to a dashboard

Once you have created a new dashboard, you can add visualizations to it.

Click Edit in the toolbar panel — the options change to Editing mode.

Click Add, then select a previously created visualization from the list:

image:15d88ceca5f22c.png[Adding a visualization to the dashboard]

You can filter the list of visualizations by typing a filter string into
the *Visualization Filter* field.

The visualization you select appears in a _container_ on your dashboard.

NOTE: If you see a message about the container’s height or width being too
small, link:#UUID-b8c4e538-2906-ffbf-5a69-583d74a70435[resize the
container].


If you select another visualization, it appears in another container
beside the first one that was added.

*Visualizations and searches in a dashboard*

A visualization is usually linked to a search. For example, the _Article
Authors_ visualization is linked to the _Articles_ search, as is the
_Articles Wordcloud_ visualization. Similarly, the _Companies Table_ and
_Companies Timeline_ visualizations are linked to the _Companies_
search.

A dashboard can contain visualizations that are all linked to the same
search (this provides a logical focus for the dashboard). A dashboard
can also contain visualizations that are linked to multiple searches
(Dashboard 360). This is a new feature, introduced in Siren 10.3, which
can provide great benefits for data analysis.

Before you create a dashboard, you should decide whether it will be
based around a single search or multiple searches, as this determines
the kind of _data model_ to be used.

* Single search: Click Data Model, then select the Dashboard is about a
search option. You can then select a search from the dropdown list.
* Multiple searches: Click Data Model, then select the Dashboard 360
with filter strategy option.

When you start with Siren Investigate, it is easier to use dashboards
based around a single search. It is very straightforward, and easy to
get consistent results.

Before creating a dashboard based around multiple searches (Dashboard
360), you should read
link:#UUID-01433ffb-7363-9f80-7f08-02c01a9beffc[The Dashboard Data
Model] topic, which provides a comprehensive explanation of the feature.

[[UUID-cfe457c3-be84-3271-a173-89b63ccd4047]]
== Saving a dashboard

After you have created a dashboard with some visualizations and
associated searches, you can save it.

Click *Save* in the toolbar:

image:15d88ceca6880e.png[Saving a dashboard]

If you want to change the dashboard name from the one it was created
with, type it in the *Title* field.

If *Store time with dashboard* is checked, the time filter currently set
(for example, image:15d88ceca718ce.png[image]) will be restored
when the dashboard is reopened.

Click the Save button.

The dashboard is saved, and the name is displayed in the dashboard list
on the right.

TIP: When you have multiple dashboards created, you can organize them into
link:#UUID-f881e88e-ea24-737c-cd42-eed6aa8c34bf[dashboard groups].

[[UUID-b8c4e538-2906-ffbf-5a69-583d74a70435]]
== Customizing the dashboard

Each visualization in your dashboard is stored in a _container_; you can
resize and arrange the containers in the dashboard.

*Resizing, moving, and removing containers*

Normally only one control (Maximize) is available on the top left of the
container's frame. Clicking this maximizes the container and hides all
other containers in the dashboard. Clicking the Restore control returns
the visualization to its normal size and position.

To perform other operations on containers, first click Edit on the
container's toolbar.

*Moving* - Click and hold the container’s Move control to move the
container around the dashboard. Other containers will shift as needed to
make room for the moving container. Release the mouse button to confirm
the container’s new location.

*Resizing* - Move the cursor to the bottom right corner of the container
until the cursor changes to point at the corner. After the cursor
changes, click and drag the corner of the container to change the
container’s size. Release the mouse button to confirm the new container
size.

*Removing* - Click the *x* icon in the top right corner of a container
to remove that container from the dashboard. Removing a container from a
dashboard does not remove the saved visualization in that container.

*Viewing detailed visualization information*

To display the raw data behind the visualization, click the Spy Open
icon at the bottom left of the container. You can select different types
of detailed information by selecting an option from the dropdown menu,
as in the following examples:

**Table*.*

A representation of the underlying data, presented as a paginated data
grid. You can sort the items in the table by clicking the table headers
at the top of each column.

image:15d88ceca785bf.png[vis spy table]

**Request*.*

The raw request used to query the server, presented in JSON format.

image:15d88ceca7eef2.png[Visual spy request]

**Response*.*

The raw response from the server, presented in JSON format.

image:15d88ceca8681f.png[Visual spy response]

**Statistics*.*

A summary of the statistics related to the request and the response,
presented as a data grid. The data grid includes the query duration, the
request duration, the total number of records found on the server, and
the index pattern used to make the query.

image:15d88ceca904b3.png[Visual spy stats]

**Debug*.*

A summary of the visualization state (for example, visualization
parameters and aggregations) and other details.

image:15d88ceca98046.png[Visual spy debug]

To export the raw data behind the visualization as a
comma-separated-values (CSV) file, click either the *Raw* or *Formatted*
links at the bottom of the detailed information tabs. A raw export
contains the data as it is stored in Elasticsearch. A formatted export
contains the results of any applicable Siren Investigate [field
formatters].

[[UUID-ef1636cb-f81e-5645-6770-5d67f0909c84]]
== Working with filters

With your visualizations in place, you can now use them to filter the
data. There are several ways to do this:

* Enter a search term in the Filters field at the top of the
visualization.
* Interact directly with the visualization. For example, click a chart
segment - this will apply a filter based on the value selected.
* Click the Add a filter + link.

When you create a filter, the filter conditions display in an oval under
the search text entry box:

image:15d88ceca9f4f5.png[filter sample]

Moving the mouse pointer over the filter oval displays the following
icons:

image:15d88cec936270.png[Filter all buttons.]

Enable Filter (image:15d88cec93e083.png[image])::
  Click this icon to switch off the filter without removing it. You can
  enable the filter again by reselecting the icon. Inactive filters are
  displayed with a striped background.
Pin Filter (image:15d88cec945cda.png[image])::
  Click this icon to _pin_ a filter. Pinned filters persist across Siren
  Investigate tabs. You can pin filters from the _Visualize_ tab; when
  you click the _Discover_ or _Dashboard_ tabs, those filters remain in
  place.

NOTE: If you have a pinned filter and you are not seeing any query results,
check that your current tab’s index pattern is one that the filter
applies to. For example, a filter `+name:giovanni+` will results in 0
results if pinned and therefore 'dragged along' to a dashboard whose
underlying index does not have a `+name+` field, let alone a
`+giovanni+` value. For this reason, it is good practice in Siren
Investigate to use _Dashboard Groups_ to group together dashboards that
are based on the same underlying index. In this case, the user can
safely pin and 'drag along' a filter across dashboards in the same
group.

Toggle Filter (image:15d88cec8ed4ee.png[image])::
  Click this icon to _toggle_ a filter. By default, filters are
  inclusion filters, and are displayed in green. Only elements that
  match the filter are displayed. To change this to an exclusion filter,
  displaying only elements that _do not_ match, toggle the filter.
  Exclusion filters are displayed in red.
Remove Filter (image:15d88cec94ce8f.png[image])::
  Click this icon to remove a filter.
Custom Filter (image:15d88cec95789d.png[image])::
  Click this icon to display a text field where you can customize the
  JSON representation of the filter and specify an alias to use for the
  filter name, for example, to filter the data to just the companies
  based in London:

image:15d88cecaa69d0.png[London Companies Filter Example.]

Adding the `+London Companies+` label to the filter displays that label
on the filter bar:

image:15d88cecaad01b.png[London Companies Filter Bar]

Omitting the label displays the filter query in the filter bar:

image:15d88cecab4833.png[London Companies Filter Bar]

*Visualizations listen to filters*

Most visualizations in Siren Investigate are connected to a search. The
following screenshot shows two two visualizations (a heatmap and an
analytic table), both connected to the _company_ search.

image:15d88cecabb8cc.png[image]

When a visualization is backed by a search, it ‘listens to’ and reacts
to filters or textual queries which are currently on the dashboard.

For example, in the following screenshot, the same visualizations update
when a filter is added (in this case, countrycode=USA). Filters can be
created either by clicking on the visualizations themselves, or manually
with the Add a filter + link.

image:15d88cecac4861.png[image]

There is a limitation with this simple filtering model, however. All the
visualizations will try to apply the filters to their underlying
searches, whether or not the filter is applicable.

For example, the countrycode=USA filter will be applied to all the
visualizations, even to one that is backed by the _Investment_ search,
which does not have a countrycode field. This will cause a 'No results
found' on that visualization.

image:15d88cecacb85b.png[image]

For this reason, Investigate dashboards typically group visualizations
based on the same search (or searches that have identical/compatible
field names), so that filters work coherently across them.

Siren 10.3 overcomes this limitation, however, allowing relationally
connected visualizations with the use of the new Dashboard 360 feature,
which is described in the Dashboard Data Model section.

*JSON filter representation*

You can use a JSON filter representation to implement predicate logic,
with `+should+` for OR, `+must+` for AND, and `+must_not+` for NOT:

+ .OR Example

[source,json]
----
{
  "bool": {
    "should": [
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.country_name.raw": "Canada"
        }
      },
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.country_name.raw": "China"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

+ .AND Example

[source,json]
----
{
  "bool": {
    "must": [
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.country_name.raw": "United States"
        }
      },
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.city_name.raw": "New York"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

+ .NOT Example

[source,json]
----
{
  "bool": {
    "must_not": [
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.country_name.raw": "United States"
        }
      },
      {
        "term": {
          "geoip.country_name.raw": "Canada"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

Click *Done* to update the filter with your changes.

NOTE: See
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/5.6/query-dsl.html[Query
DSL documentation] for more information on the possibilities.


To apply any of the filter actions to all the filters currently in
place, click [.menuchoice]#Actions > Global Filter Actions# and select
an action.

[[UUID-b99762a4-67c4-1e00-77b1-0a8017e4cc11]]
== Sharing a dashboard

You can share dashboards with other users by sending a link or by
embedding them into HTML pages; ensure that your Siren Investigate
installation is properly secured when sharing a dashboard on a public
facing server.

NOTE: To view shared dashboards users must be able to access Siren
Investigate; keep this in mind if your Siren Investigate instance is
protected by an authentication proxy.


To share a dashboard, click *Share* to display the _Sharing_ panel.

image:15d88cecad27d9.png[sharing panel]

Click *Copy* to copy the native URL or embed HTML to the clipboard. The
`+Share Snapshot+` *link* field contains a preshortened URL for sharing
or embedding.

*Embedding a dashboard*

Copy the embed code from the _Share_ display into your external web
application. Two options are available, *iframe with no sidebars* and
*iframe with dashboard navigation sidebar*.

[[UUID-7acbd7ad-2a41-90ec-08ee-fa6ecba2f1b8]]
== Reset all dashboards

You can save a dashboard with specific filters, a custom query, or a
certain time range.

image:15d88cecadab75.png[remove all filters]

If you click *Reset Filter*  (image:15d88cecae2ccb.png[image]) in
the toolbar panel, the temporary filters/queries/time range set on *all*
dashboards are removed, and each dashboard reverts to its default state
with the saved filters/query/time range.

[[UUID-f881e88e-ea24-737c-cd42-eed6aa8c34bf]]
== Dashboard groups

Dashboards can be organized in dashboard groups. Dashboard groups are
often used to group together visualizations that are based on the same
search.

image:15d88cecaeada0.png[Dashboard Groups Panel]

If the dashboard is associated with a saved search, the count of
documents on the dashboard is displayed next to the dashboard name. Two
additional indicators that may be displayed are:

* _Filters/Queries indicator_: The filter icon is displayed if there are
any filters or queries currently applied on the dashboard.
* _Pruned joins indicator_: A star symbol is displayed if any join
operation was pruned.

You create a dashboard group by clicking the Create new group icon in
the dashboard panel.

image:15d88cecaf1a15.png[image]

In the dashboard panel, you can change the order of the dashboard groups
and move dashboards between groups by dragging and dropping.

*Editing a dashboard group*

Dashboard groups can be managed by right-clicking the dashboard group
name to get the Edit and Delete options.

image:15d88cecb056a5.png[image]

In Edit mode, you can change the title of an existing group, set the
icon to a custom image by inserting a URL, or use
a https://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/[Font Awesome] icon.

[[UUID-b1dcfd44-c591-5197-e786-3608f9ad7213]]
== Auto generate dashboard

If you have selected fields (or used the auto select fields feature) in
*Discover*, you can click *Generate Dashboard* to auto generate a
dashboard from those selected fields. This will create a new dashboard
with visualizations selected to display the data in those fields.

First the generated dashboard details are shown and can be edited:

image:15d88cecb0ca3f.png[Create auto generated dashboard panel]

Here, you can edit the title of the new dashboard, choose whether to
store the time with the dashboard (a time filter set on the dashboard
will be stored and retrieved when the dashboard is reloaded).

If you want to add a
link:#UUID-82a30c72-d16e-c242-6459-6e98f3f3e110[Multichart
visualization] to the dashboard, select the check box. Be aware that
this can slow the generation of the dashboard.

The generated dashboard will be associated to a
link:#UUID-c6b44413-ffea-a53d-009b-626b78cb35ab[saved search], which by
default is a new saved search created from the current state of the
Discover page. If a saved search is currently open in the Discover page,
however, you have the option to use it either before or after saving its
state.

[[UUID-3c182cb1-9ba3-c285-312e-70ca8e3dbdc9]]
== Generate dashboard report

Clicking *OK* on the generated dashboard’s details panel opens a panel
showing the details of the visualizations to be added to the dashboard:

image:15d88cecb135e8.png[Generate Dashboard Visualizations Panel]

Here, the visualizations to be applied to the dashboard are listed. You
can choose whether to add them with the check boxes on the left and you
can also edit the automatically generated title of each visualization in
the input boxes on the right.

Clicking *OK* here will save and generate your new dashboard.

image:15d88cecb1ab8a.png[New Auto Generated Dashboard]

If you want to resize or reorder your visualizations on the dashboard,
click *Edit* on the top bar to begin customizing.

[[UUID-aad52b44-4393-67a6-3c8b-6f31b7d104a5]]
== Create a search over all dashboard

Typically, most Siren
link:#UUID-44c38ee5-aeec-1966-1a50-114cc6bf3fbb[dashboards] have a
search bar at the top for drilling down to the dashboard records that
match the search.

But in this section we will show how to create a dashboard that can act
as a search over all engine, show records that come from any of the
Siren accessible indexes, get a preview, and ultimately reach the most
appropriate dashboards.

With keyword highlighting, smart field preview selection, a detailed
full document panel, and best in class ranking, a Siren search engine
dashboard is a must have for most deployments.

=== Current Limitations

As with Siren 10.0, the method described here work only for data which
is stored in the
link:/document/preview/60658#UUID-a59a2d0e-b67c-4627-6ba0-28629af316fd[Siren
Elasticsearch nodes]. Currently, data that is stored outside these
nodes, for example accessed directly using
link:/document/preview/60699#UUID-795b7b5f-8ccc-c3f7-3425-1107ed5415cf[Virtual
Indexes], is not shown in this search and must instead be searched
independently in their own dashboards.3.9 Indexes and relations
(legacy)3.11. JDBC datasources

=== Prerequisite data in the Siren Elasticsearch nodes

The method works for any data available in Siren Elasticsearch nodes. No
mandatory method or structure is required. However, consider that if you
have control over the way data is loaded, then it is always convenient
to have a somewhat similar schema across indexes.

For example, if we know in advance that most records will have a primary
time stamp (or a strong concept, for example a "user ID" which is
repeated across many indexes) then it is sensible to use the same field
name consistently across indexes. This has advantages both in the Search
Engine dashboards and across Siren.

In Siren Investigate, this provides consistency for users in the general
dashboards when using those attributes, for example creating filters
that can be
link:/document/preview/60405#UUID-0e9f4457-79b1-19b3-638d-57bc1a6d84c3[pinned]
and will work when moved from one dashboard to another. It is also
useful in creating an over-all search engine page because it enables you
to use widgets (for example an over-all "time stamp" date histogram)
that work well across the different indexes.3.4.10. Changing the
Visualization

For the search engine page, you can use a "common denominator" column
(in the result table) or drill-down widget to refine the search.

If no fields are purposely the same (have the same type and meaning)
across indexes, the search engine will still work and enables you to
restrict by content and at a minimum by the name of the originating
index.

Consider collision in field names; fields will still be shown but
ordering and aggregations on these fields may cause problems.

=== Configure a * index pattern with exclusions

The next step is to configure a "*" index pattern. When doing this, it
is important to add exclusions so that the index pattern will not take
indexes which are private to Siren or that might belong to other users
of the nodes outside Siren Investigate.

The exclusion pattern can be set in the advanced settings.

image:15d88cecb222e4.png[image]

At this point, ensure you have a saved search associated with this index
pattern. In Siren 10, a saved search is created automatically after the
index pattern is created. You may want to rename it to "*" or "search
over all".

=== Creating the search over all dashboard

The "search over all" dashboard is a normal dashboard that has the
"search over all" saved search as its core dashboard (see
link:#[?xml_title]). Here is an example configuration:

image:15d88cecb2a32e.png[image]

If you have more shared fields across indexes, for example a time stamp,
then more common widgets such as a timeline histogram for the number
documents (possibly with a bar split on the "type" of document") could
be an interesting addition.

=== Using the dashboard and user training

Typically, the dashboard works as the user expects, with some caveats:

* Search uses the same rules as other dashboards. Default Siren
configurations use an OR logic, which does not require all words to be
present in the result and may be unfamiliar to some users. However, the
OR logic is useful because it enables a more expressive query (for
example, you can copy and paste a paragraph of text and find documents
that contain just a few words from it). Typically, the
link:#UUID-cdc5ce52-b982-7acd-81ae-c38c8855647f[ranking] returns the
most significant results first, providing a good overall user
experience.
* To select one or more documents and go to the specific dashboard, you
must:
** Click the check box for the creation of individual
document link:/document/preview/60150#UUID-6c99b59a-ddaa-708c-9536-7ff56550921f[filter].2.1.3.
Filters
** Select the documents.
** Click Create Filter, and then
"link:#UUID-bbbac2e6-269e-ea10-ef90-d5f4e92b1d63[pin the filter]". This
makes it possible to then go to the destination dashboard and see the
search results in that environment.
* The top right time filter has no effect unless a time filter variable
is selected on the * index pattern. You should only do so if all the
documents have a time stamp field that has the same name or the
documents will not be shown.

=== Search over all and the graph browser

The "search over all" dashboard works well in conjunction with the graph
browser. All the results can be added at once using the standard graph
browser "link:#UUID-c781ea33-07ef-8521-35a7-f830e0d1f632[add document]"
mechanism.

=== Search over all and relational links

Currently, you should not use "search over all" in conjunction with the
relational buttons (pivoting directly from the search interface to the
dashboards). This is because with Siren 10, the * pattern is seen as a
different entity class altogether in the ontology editor. As such,
relations must be recreated and mappings will be very confusing with all
the fields mixed together. Also, to go from a search result to its
correspondent on the dashboard using a relational button, you would need
a field that can `work as primary key (outside the __uid_ field which
cannot be used).

=== More resources

While the default search quality is good, it can be dramatically
improved by taking into consideration the requirements of the
application. The following resources are a great place to start
improving the quality of your search:

* https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/languages.html[Indexing
human language in Elasticsearch].
* Use field popularity settings - read more about
https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/guide/current/boosting-by-popularity.html[boosting
ranking via field popularity].

For even more advanced search (semantic, ontology-thesaurus based,
multilingual, AI - learn to rank), contact your Siren account manager.

[[UUID-ccca4b38-1e63-3793-cd60-78d0b639405d]]
== Dashboard color theme

By default, Siren Investigate dashboards use a light color theme. To use
a dark color theme instead, click *Options* (which you can find on the
top horizontal menu or by right-clicking the dashboard name) and select
the *Use dark theme* box.

image:15d88cecb3400b.png[image]

NOTE: You can change the default theme in the *Advanced* section of the
*Settings* tab.


[[UUID-1b4b59b8-a0e9-28d9-32ea-5d5314f110fe]]
== Refreshing the search results

You can configure a refresh interval to automatically refresh the page
with the latest index data. This periodically resubmits the search
query.

When a refresh interval is set, it is displayed to the left of the Time
Filter in the menu bar.

To set the refresh interval:

[arabic]
. Click *Time Filter* (image:15d88cec89d28c.png[image]).
. Click the *Refresh Interval* tab.
. Choose a refresh interval from the list.

To automatically refresh the data, click *Auto-refresh*
(image:15d88cecb3a52c.png[image]) when the time picker is open and
select an auto refresh interval:

image:15d88cec8d81f3.png[uto refresh intervals]

When auto-refresh is enabled, Siren Investigate’s top bar displays a
*Pause* (image:15d88cecb4125c.png[image]) button and the
auto-refresh interval.
