= Datasource entity selection

It is possible to select a company entity (record) in the SQLite
database (and entities in
link:/TBD/60728#UUID-ee44d7f4-bcfd-2e83-344d-d3c4832363d9[external
datasources] in general) by clicking its label in the Companies
Table.

The selected entity can be used as a parameter in
link:/TBD/60728#UUID-ee44d7f4-bcfd-2e83-344d-d3c4832363d9[queries];
for example, click *Browshot* in Companies Table:

image::image/15d764ed1716fa.png[Entity selection]

Selecting an entity enables additional queries on external datasources.
For example, in the _Query on Companies_ visualization you can see that,
amongst the top 500 companies by number of employees mentioned in
articles about _wireless_ or _Wi-Fi_, _Browshot_ has 487 competitors and
there are nineteen companies in the same domain. All widgets affected by
the selected entity are marked by a purple header.

For the Y-axis metrics aggregation, select *Unique Count*, with
*speaker* as the field. For Shakespeare plays, it may be useful to know
which plays have the lowest number of distinct speaking parts, if your
theater company is short on actors. For the X-Axis buckets, select the
*Terms* aggregation with the `+play_name+` field. For the *Order*,
select *Ascending*, leaving the *Size* at `+5+`.

Leave the other elements at their default values and click *Apply
Changes* (image:image/15d764ed153f9c.png[image]).

Selecting an entity also enables the display of additional data in the
Company Info visualization; by clicking the _(show)_ links you can
toggle the list of companies in the same domain and competitors. The
data in the tables is fetched from queries on the SQLite database, using
the selected company ID as a parameter. The queries are rendered using
link:/TBD/60244#UUID-23f94e9e-6787-2126-2ca2-45ded58b2789[customizable
templates], which will be introduced later.

The selected entity appears as a light blue box on the right of the
filter bar; to deselect an entity, click the bin icon displayed when
moving the mouse pointer over the purple box.

For more information about entity selection, see link:#[Legacy
REST datasources].
