= Query based aggregations

It is possible to get additional information about companies by using
the results of queries on SQL databases (or any of the datasources
supported by Siren Investigate) as aggregations on Elasticsearch
documents.

For example, in the *Query on Companies* visualization you can see that
41 of the 96 companies have competitors, and eight of them are in the
top 500 companies by number of employees:

image:image/15d764ed137a6c.png[SQL based aggregations]

*Companies "With competitors"* and *Top 500 companies (HR count)* are
link:/document/preview/60595#UUID-8c241402-f7cb-01ea-2886-c4d073d2218a[queries]
on the SQLite database. The records returned by the queries are used to
filter Elasticsearch documents, which can be then aggregated in a
metric.3.9.4. Queries

To better understand this feature, let’s examine the *Top 500 companies
(HR count)* query. To see the query, click *Saved Objects* in the
*Management* menu.

image:image/15d764ed13d9e6.png[image]

The query returns
the `+id+`, `+label+` and `+number_of_employees+` columns from
the company table for the top 500 companies by number of employees:

[source,sql]
----
select id, label, number_of_employees
from company
where number_of_employees>0
order by number_of_employees desc
limit 500
----

Click *Dashboard*, then *Edit*, and then *Edit*
(image:image/15d764ed143f43.png[image]) in the heading of the *Query on
Companies* visualization to customize its configuration. The *metrics*
section defines the aggregations on Elasticsearch documents, displayed
as columns in the table. The *buckets* section defines the groups of
Elasticsearch documents aggregated by metrics, displayed as row headers
in the table.

image:image/15d764ed148d71.png[image]

By expanding the *Split Rows* section inside buckets you can see how the
queries are used to define groups of Elasticsearch documents. Scroll
down to see the configuration of the fourth filter:

image:image/15d764ed14ec35.png[image]

The filter is configured to execute the query *Top 500 companies (HR
count)* on the SQLite database and return the group of Elasticsearch
documents from the current search whose *ID* is equal to one of the IDs
in the query results. The documents are then processed by
the _Count_ metric.

Let’s add a new aggregation to show the average number of employees.
Click *Add metrics* inside the *metrics* section, then
select *Metric* as the metric type; select *Average* as the aggregation
and `+number_of_employees+` as the field, then click *Apply
Changes* (image:image/15d764ed153f9c.png[image]).

Save the visualization by clicking *Save*, then click
the *Dashboard* tab to see the updated visualization in
the *Companies* dashboard:

image:image/15d764ed159263.png[image]

Click *Add sub-buckets* at the bottom, then select *Split Rows* as the
bucket type. Choose the *Terms* aggregation and the *countrycode* field
from the boxes. Click *Apply
Changes* (image:image/15d764ed153f9c.png[image]) to add an external ring
with the new results.

image:image/15d764ed15edf8.png[image]

For an in-depth explanation of aggregations, see link:#[3.5.1 Creating a
visualization].3.5.1 Creating a visualization

In addition to defining groups to aggregate, queries can be used as
filters. To see this click *Dashboard*, then in the *Query on
Companies* dashboard, move the mouse pointer over the row
for *Top-500-companies-(HR-count)* and click the plus (*+*) icon that
appears.

image:image/15d764ed164ce9.png[image]

Then you will see only the companies mentioned in the articles which are
also in the top 500 by number of employees:

image:image/15d764ed16ab3b.png[image]
